[Feature] Add `databricks_credential` resource (#4219)
databricks/terraform-provider-databricks: docs/resources/credential.md

    privileges = ["ACCESS"]
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are required:

- `name` - Name of Credentials, which must be unique within the [databricks_metastore](metastore.md). Change forces creation of a new resource.
- `purpose` - Indicates the purpose of the credential. Can be `SERVICE` or `STORAGE`.
- `owner` - (Optional) Username/groupname/sp application_id of the credential owner.
- `read_only` - (Optional) Indicates whether the credential is only usable for read operations. Only applicable when purpose is `STORAGE`.
- `skip_validation` - (Optional) Suppress validation errors if any & force save the credential.
- `force_destroy` - (Optional) Delete credential regardless of its dependencies.
- `force_update` - (Optional) Update credential regardless of its dependents.
- `isolation_mode` - (Optional) Whether the credential is accessible from all workspaces or a specific set of workspaces. Can be `ISOLATION_MODE_ISOLATED` or `ISOLATION_MODE_OPEN`. Setting the credential to `ISOLATION_MODE_ISOLATED` will automatically allow access from the current workspace.

`aws_iam_role` optional configuration block for credential details for AWS:

> - `role_arn` - The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the AWS IAM role for S3 data access, of the form `arn:aws:iam::1234567890:role/MyRole-AJJHDSKSDF`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `role_arn` - The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the AWS IAM role you want to use to setup the trust policy, of the form `arn:aws:iam::1234567890:role/MyRole-AJJHDSKSDF`
```

The role might not be used for S3 access (e.g. service credential)

> `azure_managed_identity` optional configuration block for using managed identity as credential details for Azure (recommended over service principal):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`azure_managed_identity` optional configuration block for using managed identity as credential details for Azure (recommended over `azure_service_principal`):
```

---
subcategory: "Unity Catalog"
---
# databricks_credential Resource

-> This resource can only be used with a workspace-level provider.

-> This feature is in [Public Preview](https://docs.databricks.com/release-notes/release-types.html).

A credential represents an authentication and authorization mechanism for accessing services on your cloud tenant. Each credential is subject to Unity Catalog access-control policies that control which users and groups can access the credential.

> To create credentials, you must be a Databricks account admin or have the `CREATE SERVICE CREDENTIAL` privilege. The user who creates the credential can delegate ownership to another user or group to manage permissions on it

Reviewer 2: Will `create service credential` work with service principals on azure?

Reviewer 2: Should we also mention `CREATE_STORAGE_CREDENTIAL` ?

Author: our sdk go struct does not match the OpenAPI spec for some reason...

Reviewer 2: @farrucosanjurjo-db wdyt?

Reviewer 3: > our go-sdk struct does not match the OpenAPI spec for some reason...maybe we need to wait for it to be regenerated

I think that's the issue here. We recently updated the proto files (and hence the OpenAPI specs) to include the management of storage credentials with the `/credentials` endpoints

Reviewer 3: > Will create service credential work with service principals on azure?

No. We only support Azure Managed Identities

Reviewer: > Should we also mention CREATE_STORAGE_CREDENTIAL ?

yes, we should. See the docs https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/credentials/createcredential

## Example Usage

For AWS

```hcl
resource "databricks_credential" "external" {
  name = aws_iam_role.external_data_access.name

>   aws_iam_role {

Reviewer 2: `purpose` is missing? I don't see defaults in the API spec

-> This feature is in [Public Preview](https://docs.databricks.com/release-notes/release-types.html).

A credential represents an authentication and authorization mechanism for accessing services on your cloud tenant. Each credential is subject to Unity Catalog access-control policies that control which users and groups can access the credential.

To create credentials, you must be a Databricks account admin or have the `CREATE SERVICE CREDENTIAL` privilege. The user who creates the credential can delegate ownership to another user or group to manage permissions on it

On AWS, the IAM role for a credential requires a trust policy. See [documentation](https://docs.databricks.com/en/connect/unity-catalog/cloud-services/service-credentials.html#step-1-create-an-iam-role) for more details. The data source [databricks_aws_unity_catalog_assume_role_policy](../data-sources/aws_unity_catalog_assume_role_policy.md) can be used to create the necessary AWS Unity Catalog assume role policy.

## Example Usage

For AWS

```hcl
resource "databricks_credential" "external" {
  name = aws_iam_role.external_data_access.name
  aws_iam_role {
    role_arn = aws_iam_role.external_data_access.arn
  }

>   comment = "Managed by TF"

Reviewer 2: this example will fail as `purpose` is required...

}

resource "databricks_grants" "external_creds" {
  credential = databricks_credential.external.id
  grant {
    principal  = "Data Engineers"
    privileges = ["ACCESS"]
  }
}
```

For Azure

```hcl
resource "databricks_credential" "external_mi" {
  name = "mi_credential"

>   azure_managed_identity {

Reviewer 2: same here

## Example Usage

For AWS

```hcl
resource "databricks_credential" "external" {
  name = aws_iam_role.external_data_access.name
  aws_iam_role {
    role_arn = aws_iam_role.external_data_access.arn
  }
  purpose = "SERVICE"
  comment = "Managed by TF"
}

resource "databricks_grants" "external_creds" {
  credential = databricks_credential.external.id
  grant {
    principal  = "Data Engineers"
    privileges = ["ACCESS"]
  }
}
```

For Azure

```hcl
resource "databricks_credential" "external_mi" {
  name = "mi_credential"
  azure_managed_identity {
    access_connector_id = azurerm_databricks_access_connector.example.id
  }
  purpose = "SERVICE"
  comment = "Managed identity credential managed by TF"
}

resource "databricks_grants" "external_creds" {
  credential = databricks_credential.external.id
  grant {
    principal  = "Data Engineers"
    privileges = ["ACCESS"]
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are required:

- `name` - Name of Credentials, which must be unique within the [databricks_metastore](metastore.md). Change forces creation of a new resource.

> - `purpose` - Indicates the purpose of the credential. Can be `SERVICE`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `purpose` - Indicates the purpose of the credential. Can be `SERVICE` or `STORAGE`.
```

> - `owner` - (Optional) Username/groupname/sp application_id of the credential owner.

Reviewer 3: Afaik, the `owner` can't be set. It's derived from the identity of the user creating the credential

Reviewer 3: unless this also applies to updates

Author: this applies to update - and in case of create, we execute an update as well

> - `read_only` - (Optional) Indicates whether the credential is only usable for read operations.

Reviewer 3: Note this only applies to storage credentials

- `skip_validation` - (Optional) Suppress validation errors if any & force save the credential.
- `force_destroy` - (Optional) Delete credential regardless of its dependencies.
- `force_update` - (Optional) Update credential regardless of its dependents.

> - `isolation_mode` - (Optional) Whether the credential is accessible from all workspaces or a specific set of workspaces. Can be `ISOLATION_MODE_ISOLATED` or `ISOLATION_MODE_OPEN`. Setting the credential to `ISOLATION_MODE_ISOLATED` will automatically allow access from the current workspace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `isolation_mode` - (Optional) Whether the credential is accessible from all workspaces or a specific set of workspaces. Can be `ISOLATION_MODE_ISOLATED` or `ISOLATION_MODE_OPEN`. Setting the credential to `ISOLATION_MODE_ISOLATED` will automatically restrict access to only from the current workspace.
```

When `isolation_mode` is changed, do we implicitly make a call to bind the credential to the current workspace?

Author: yes, otherwise TF cannot manage the credential - I don't want to say "automatically restrict access to only from the current workspace", as customers will add additional bindings as necessary via the `databricks_workspace_binding` resource
